I CALL THE ORDER THE
REGULAR BUILDING APPEALS FOR
OCTOBER 16TH TWO THOUSAND
TWENTY FIVE WE'LL CALL EARLY
HERE HERE FOR HERE OR HERE FOR
HERE PRESENT.
PRESIDENT YOU HAVE ONE.
THANK YOU.
FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
GENERAL HERE FOR CNN.
THE NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
THE APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA HAVE
A MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
FROM JUNE SECOND TO HERE BY THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE RECEIVED MINUTES FROM THE
JULY 17 TO 25 MEETING.
WE HAVE COMMENTS OR CORRECTIONS
TO THOSE NOT.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MOTION TO APPROVE OUR SECOND
FAVOR.
I APPROVED THE FIRST ITEM
OF THE APPEALS ACTIONS TO SHOW
CAUSE HEARING IS A SINGLE
APPEAL.
THE PROCESS IS WE HAVE THE MAKE
A REPORT ABOUT THE VARIOUS AND
THEN HAVE THE OPINION COME UP
AND PRESENT THEIR APPEAL AND
THEN THE BOARD WILL ASK
QUESTIONS THE APPLICANT AND
WHILE THE MOTION AND THAT'S THE
PROCESS WE NEED AT LEAST MAJAW
OF THE PEOPLE ON THE BOARD TO
VOTE IN FAVOR SO THAT BE THREE
POSITIVE VOTES TODAY.
SO THE SERVICE REPORT.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON.
THIS IS FIRE MARSHAL MICHAEL
REDMOND.
WE DO IN THE STAFF REPORT TODAY
THIS IS FOR APPEAL NO BVA
TWENTY FIVE TWO ZERO ZERO ONE
ONE.
THIS IS LOCATED AT THREE THREE
SIX SOUTH STATE STREET HERE IN
ANN ARBOR PROPERTY OWNER IS
OXFORD PROPERTY MANAGEMENT.
THE PETITIONER FOR THIS IS
YELLOWSTONE ARCHITECTURE AND
DESIGN BACKGROUND FOR THIS THE
PROPERTY AT THREE THREE SIX
SOUTH STATE IS AN EXISTING
STRUCTURE BUILT IN 1910.
IT IS LISTED IN BBSES BSN A
MIXED COMMERCIAL PROPERTY WITH
STORES, RETAIL, COMMERCIAL AND
APARTMENT COMMERCIAL OCCUPANCY
.
THE BUILDING IS UNDER INTERIOR
RENOVATION REQUIRED FOR FIRE
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM WHICH WAS
BROUGHT TO MY ATTENTION TO
REVIEW FOR A COMPLIANCE
PARTYING HYDRANT FOR THE FTC
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
AFTER REVIEWING WHAT WAS
PROPOSED FOR THE FTC LOCATION
AND WHAT EXISTING HYDRANTS THAT
WERE AVAILABLE I CITED AS
NON-COMPLIANT IT WAS CITED FOR
NONCOMPLIANCE FOR THE FOLLOWING
REASONS NO ONE LOCATION OF THE
FTC UNDER TWENTY TWENTY ONE AFC
CODE NINE TWELVE POINT TWO NINE
TWELVE POINT TWO POINT ONE NINE
TWELVE POINT TWO LOCATION WITH
RESPECT TO HYDRANTS, DRIVEWAY'S
BUILDINGS AND LANDSCAPING FIRE
DEPARTMENT CONDUCTION SHALL BE
SO LOCATED THAT THE FIRE
APPARATUS AND FIRE HOSE
CONNECTED TO THE SUPPLY THE
SYSTEM WILL NOT OBSTRUCT ACCESS
TO THE BUILDINGS FOR OTHER FIRE
APPARATUS THE LOCATION OF THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
SHALL BE APPROVED BY THE FIRE
CODE OFFICIAL NINE TWELVE POINT
TWO POINT ONE VISIBLE LOCATION
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
SHALL BE LOCATED ON THE STREET
SIDE OF THE BUILDING OR FACING
APPROVED FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS
ROADS FULLY VISIBLE AND
RECOGNIZABLE FROM THE STREET
FIRE APPARATUS, ACCESS ROADS OR
NEAREST POINTS OF THE FIRE
VEHICLE ACCESS OR OTHERWISE
APPROVED BY THE FIRE
CODE OFFICIAL NOTE THE
PETITIONER IS NOT ASKING FOR
RELIEF FROM THESE CODES IN THIS
BEEBER THE FTC WILL BE REQUIRED
TO BE ON THE SOUTH STATE STREET
SIDE OF THE BUILDING ROAD
FRONTAGE AND THERE IS ONLY ONE
HYDRANT THAT IS COMPLIANT WITH
BOTH OF THESE CODES.
THIS IS THE HYDRANT ON THE SAME
SIDE OF THE STREET
APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED SIXTY
FIVE FEET FROM THE NORTH TO THE
NORTH OF THE NORTH CORNER
OF THE BUILDING NUMBER TWO
DISTANCE FROM THE FTC FIRED
POWER CONNECTION TO THE CLOSEST
COMPLIANT FIRE HYDRANT.
NO, THE MINIMUM ONE HUNDRED
FOOT REQUIREMENT IS NOT AN AFC
FIRE CODE REQUIREMENT.
THE PETITIONER HAS CITED A
CODE THAT DOES NOT APPLY TO
THIS PROJECT AND WAS NOT CITED
BY ME AS A FIRE CODE OFFICIAL.
THE PETITIONER IS ASKING FOR
RELIEF FROM FIRE CODE TWENTY
TWENTY ONE I HAVE SEE FIVE OR
SEVEN POINT FIVE POINT ONE
POINT ONE THAT I DID NOT CITE
BECAUSE IT DOES NOT APPLY TO
THIS PROJECT.
THERE IS NOT A STANDPIPE SYSTEM
AT THIS STRUCTURE.
NO I CITED TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS PUBLIC
SERVICE STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS
C COVER LETTER AND EXCERPTS
WHICH WERE PROVIDED WITH THE
STAFF REPORT.
THESE ARE MINIMUM STANDARDS
OUTSIDE OF FIRE CODE THAT MUST
BE COMPLIED WITH AS WRITTEN THE
STANDARDS FOR ARTICLE THREE ARE
ENFORCED BY BOTH CITY ENGINEERS
AND THE FIRE MARSHAL FIRE
CODE OFFICIAL ARTICLE THREE
WATER DESIGN CRITERIA FIRE
HYDRANT SPACING AND COVERAGE
AND ACCESSIBLE HYDRANT SHALL BE
REQUIRED WITHIN ONE HUNDRED
FEET OF A FIRE DEPARTMENT
CONNECTION FTC VIA AN APPROVED
FIRE ROUTE FOR RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING.
THREE STORIES ARE LESS IN
HEIGHT OR FOR WHICH AN INTERNAL
SPRINKLER SYSTEM IS INSTALLED
UNDER NFP ARE THIRTEEN ARE THE
MAXIMUM SEPARATION DISTANCE
SHALL BE INCREASED TO WITHIN
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET
OF AN FDC.
THIS IS WHAT WAS CITED FOR THE
NONCOMPLIANCE FOR THE HUNDRED
FOOT DISTANCE REQUIREMENT THE
PETITIONERS REQUEST FOR RELIEF
DOES NOT APPLY TO THIS REQUIRED
STANDARD AND I DO NOT BELIEVE A
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS CAN
RULE OVER TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
STANDARD SPECIFICATION.
THE APPLICANT REQUESTS RELIEF
FROM FIRE CODE REQUIREMENTS
UNDER THE FOLLOWING BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEAL STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL TWENTY TWENTY ONE
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE SECTION
111 AND THE MUNICIPAL
CODE HORNETS TITLE NINE POLICE
REGULATION CHAPTER ONE ELEVEN
FIRE PREVENTION SECTION NINE
ONE TWO EIGHT FOUR APPEALS NINE
ONE TWO EIGHT APPEALS WHENEVER
A CHIEF OR FIRE MARSHAL FAILED
TO APPROVE AN APPLICATION OR
REFUSE TO GRANT A PERMIT
APPLIED FOR WHEN IT IS CLAIMED
THAT THE PROVISION OF THIS
CODE DO NOT APPLY OR THE TRUE
INTENT AND MEANING OF THIS
CODE HAVE BEEN MISCONSTRUED OR
WRONGLY INTERPRETED, THE
APPLICANT MAY APPEAL FROM THE
CHIEF OR FIRE MARSHAL'S
DECISION TO THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS WITHIN THIRTY DAYS
FROM THE DATE OF THE DECISION
OF THE APPEAL ONE THE PROVISION
CODE DOES NOT APPLY TO THE
INTENT OF THIS CODE HAS BEEN
WRONGLY INTERPRETED.
NOTE THAT NINE ONE EIGHT DOES
NOT ALLOW TO HAVE A PROPOSED
EQUAL OR BETTER FORM
OF PROTECTION UNDER FIRE
CODE FOR BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS STAFF RECOMMENDATION
FOR THIS STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT
THE APPLICATION BE DENIED FOR
TWO REASONS THE PETITIONER IS
SEEKING RELIEF FROM A FIRE
CODE THAT WAS NOT CITED AND
DOES NOT APPLY TO THE CITY
STANDARD THAT WAS CITED IS
REQUIRED A MINIMUM STANDARD AND
THERE IS NOT A SUPPORTING FIRE
HYDRANT WITHIN THE REQUIRED ONE
HUNDRED FEET.
THE STANDARD HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED.
THE PROVISION OF THIS STANDARD
DOES APPLY AND THE PROPOSED
DIFFERENCE OF ONE HUNDRED SIXTY
FIVE FEET IS NOT COMPLIANT.
IT DOES NOT APPEAR THAT THE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
SPECIFICATION STANDARDS CAN BE
TAKEN TO A BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
ALL MODIFICATIONS OR DEVIATIONS
FROM FIRE CODES ARE SOLELY UP
TO THE DISCRETION OF THE FIRE
MARSHAL OR FIRE CODE FITIAL THE
FIRE MARSHAL APPLIES FIRE
CODE IS A MINIMUM REQUIREMENT
AND ANY EXCEPTION FROM IT MUST
BE WRITTEN IN THE FIRE CODE IS
A LISTED EXCEPTION FOR THE
SPECIFIC CODE .
THIS ENSURES SAFETY IS STILL
BEING MET WITH THE INTENT
OF THE CODE AS WRITTEN BY THE
CODE WRITER FIRE AND EMERGENCY
RESPONSE AND ACCESS ARE LIFE
SAFETY ISSUES.
THE PROPOSED MOTIONS ARE AS
WRITTEN ALLOW FOR THE APPEAL TO
BE GRANTED.
UNDER THAT THE INTENT FOR THAT
SPECIFIC CODE IN TWENTY TWENTY
ONE SECTION FIVE OF SEVEN POINT
FIVE ONE POINT ONE POINT ONE
HAS BEEN IN CORRECTLY
INTERPRETED BY THE FIRE MARSHAL
OR THE PROVISION OF THE TWENTY
TWENTY TWENTY ONE AFC CODE FIVE
OR SEVEN POINT FIVE POINT ONE
POINT ONE DOES NOT APPLY TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AT THREE THREE
SUCCESSIVE STATE TO APPEAL DENY
IT.
THE TRUE INTENT OF THE CODE HAS
BEEN CORRECTLY INTERPRETED.
THE CODE DOES APPLY AND I ADDED
A THIRD PART TO IT THAT THE
CODE WAS NOT CITED BY THE FIRE
MARSHAL DOES NOT APPLY TO THIS
PROJECT.
THANK YOU APPLICANT.
>> DO I COME UP AND PRESENT
YOUR CASE AND FIRST OF ALL
THANK YOU TO THE BOARD MEMBERS
ALL OF YOU FOR ATTENDING TODAY.
I KNOW IT WAS A RATHER SHORT
SPRINT GETTING EVERYONE
CORRALLED AND A QUORUM PUT
TOGETHER.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. LEMIEUX.
REDMEN RISER AND MISS HARVEY
FOR ALL OF YOUR SUPPORT IN THE
PROCESS THIS ONGOING TWO YEAR
PROCESS OF GETTING THIS
RENOVATION OF THIS HISTORIC
STRUCTURE BUILT OUT.
MY NAME IS CALEB MARQUART.
I AM AN ARCHITECT AT
YELLOWSTONE ARCHITECTURE AND
DESIGN AND WE ARE WORKING WITH
OXFORD PROPERTY MANAGEMENT ON
THE SPECIFIC PROPERTY AT THIS
LOVELY HISTORIC THREE THREE SIX
SOUTH STATE LOCATION THE THIRD
FLOOR THIS IS A HISTORIC
BUILDING AS WAS READ IN THE
REPORT.
THANK YOU.
IT WAS BUILT BETWEEN 1897 1910
AND REALLY HAS NOT UNDERGONE
ANY CHANGE OF USE AT ALL SINCE
THE 1970S.
IT WAS LOVINGLY REFERRED TO AS
THE HIPPIE LOFT AND AS SUCH WE
FOUND IT EXACTLY WHAT THE
CURRENT USE IS NOW A LOVELY
CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY WITH
SOME VERY INTERESTING MATERIALS
BEING USED IN THE INSIDE.
IT WAS A LOT OF FUN.
IT WAS ONE OF THE MOST
INTRIGUING EXISTING CONDITIONS
I'VE INTERFACED WITH.
I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO THANK MY
COLLEAGUES FOR ALL THE SUPPORT
AND FOR BEING HERE AS WELL.
THANK YOU GUYS.
APPRECIATE A BRIEF HISTORY NOT
ONLY OF THE BUILDING WE KNOW
THE DATES AND THE FACT THAT IT
IS A HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THE STATE STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
BUT THIS PROJECT WAS IT WAS
KICKED OFF IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY
THREE AS ONE OF THE INITIAL
PERMIT WAS APPLIED AND THAT WAS
THAT WAS BACK UNDER MANY OTHER
PURVIEW AND FRANKLY I THINK
THAT WAS RIGHT WHEN STREAMWOOD
STARTING BUT WE RECEIVED SOME
COMMENTS IN NOVEMBER OF THAT
YEAR OF TWENTY THREE AND WE
KNEW IMMEDIATELY THAT WE NEEDED
TO GO GET A SIMILAR VARIANCE
THE STATE LEVEL FOR
ACCESSIBILITY THAT HAPPENED AND
WE GOT APPROVAL LATER THAT YEAR
IN NOVEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR ON THE PERMIT WAS
OFFICIALLY ISSUED IN JANUARY
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE.
SO WHILE THE THE PROJECT'S BEEN
GOING ON FOR TWO YEARS WE'VE
HAD MULTIPLE ITERATIONS AND
STATE VARIANCE APPROVALS FOR
WHAT WE'VE BEEN DOING AT THIS
LOCATION.
AS SUCH WE'VE WE'VE BEEN
ALIGNED TO ALL OF THE PERMIT
COMMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
NOT ONLY FROM THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AT THE TIME WHICH WOULD
HAVE BEEN ANNIE HUANG'S
COMMENTS BUT ALSO UNDER THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN'S ALLOWABLE
VARIANCES OR WHAT WE'VE BEEN
DOING HERE AND THAT APPLIES TO
ACCESSIBILITY NOT SPECIFICALLY
FOR THE FIRE OPTIONS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT NOW, BUT I WANT
TO BRING EVERYONE UP TO SPEED
ON THAT.
THE EXISTING USE WE WE HAVE NOT
TO CHANGE THE HIPPIE ESTHETIC.
IT'S STILL OUR THREE USE WHICH
IS UNDER THE COMMERCIAL CODE WE
APPLIED UNDER THE
REHABILITATION CODE FOR
EXISTING BUILDINGS AT THAT TIME
BECAUSE IT WAS TWENTY TWENTY
THREE WE WERE STILL UNDER THE
TWENTY FIFTEEN REHABCARE WOOD
AND ALL SUBSEQUENT REFERENCE
CODES SO IT'S BEEN FUN TRYING
TO WORK FROM THE TWENTY TWENTY
ONE BACK IN TWENTY FIFTEEN TO
REMEMBER OUR HISTORY OF WHAT WE
HAD GONE THROUGH.
BUT JUST SO EVERYONE
UNDERSTANDS THE CODE UNDER
WHICH THIS WAS PERMITTED AND
APPROVED OF AND LASTLY JUST I
WANT TO GIVE EVERYONE A BRIEF
STATUS WE ARE 99 PERCENT
COMPLETE THE RENOVATION INSIDE
THE EXISTING CONDITION
OBVIOUSLY DID NOT HAVE A
SPRINKLER SYSTEM SINCE THERE
WAS NO CHANGE IN THE WAY OF OF
USE.
WE WE DID WANT PROVIDE A HIGHER
LEVEL OF SAFETY IN THIS
LOCATION.
SO WE DID PROVIDE
A SPRINKLER
SYSTEM.
RIGHT NOW PIPES ARE RUN.
WE'RE JUST WAITING FOR THE TIE
TO THE MAIN.
SO FRANKLY AS THE LAST DOMINO
TO FALL BEFORE OCCUPANCY CAN BE
ACHIEVED HOPEFULLY BY THE NEXT
MONTH OR SO WITH THAT I WANT TO
KIND OF DIG INTO THE MEAT
OF POTATOES OF OF THIS
APPLICATION THE I'M GOING OVER
OF THIS VERY WELL WRITTEN
RESPONSE.
AND AGAIN, I WANT TO THANK YOU,
MR RAYMOND FOR FOR THIS
RESPONSE AND WRITE UP BOTH YOU
AND MR. WHOM YOU HAVE BEEN
EXTREMELY HELPFUL IN GETTING US
ANSWERS TO ALL OF OUR WHAT WE
CONSIDERED OUR CODE EXCEPTIONS
.
AND AGAIN WE WANT TO BRING THIS
I'M SORRY THAT THIS WAS UNDER
WE BRING THIS HERE THROUGH
STREAM AND STREAM HAS A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT OPTIONS AS TO HOW
WE WANT TO ASK FOR THE VARIANCE
AND BY NO MEANS AM I TRYING TO
SAY THE MAJORITY IF ANYTHING
WAS MISINTERPRETED WAS MORE SO
WE ARE HERE FOR AS THE WEBSITE
SAYS, THE WE CONSIDERATION OF A
CODE OFFICIAL'S OPINION ON
CERTAIN OPTIONS HERE.
SO THERE HAVE BEEN A FEW
HANDOUTS THAT WE'VE SUPPLIED TO
MISS HARVEY AND SHE'S
DISTRIBUTED TO EVERYONE SOME
OF WHICH HAVE BEEN THE THE
DIFFERENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS
THAT HAVE BEEN GIVEN FOR THIS
ARE OUR STANDARD BUILDING
PERMIT THAT WAS FROM TWENTY
TWENTY THREE IS C TWENTY THREE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN ZERO.
WE THEN HAD OUR SUBSEQUENT MASR
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
EIGHT FOUR PERMIT APPLIED AND
AS PART OF THAT TIE INTO THE
MAIN OF THE SPRINKLER SYSTEM
THIS BEING THE FIRST SPRINKLER
SYSTEM FOR THIS HISTORIC
BUILDING THAT WAS C VLP TWENTY
FIVE ZERO ZERO ONE THREE THOSE
WERE APPLIED IN EARLIER THIS
YEAR IN APRIL.
SO GOING THROUGH THESE ITEMS WE
WE HAVE THIS UNDERSTANDING THAT
THERE IS NOT ONLY THROUGH THE
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE BUT
ALSO FROM THE FAIRLY RECENT
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE ENGINEERING
BUILDING STANDARDS A VERY BOTH
OF THESE BOTH OF THESE
CODE AVENUES RUN IN PARALLEL TO
EACH OTHER.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE IS THE
OPEN QUESTION THAT I'LL GET TO
IN JUST A MOMENT ABOUT THE
JURISDICTION TO MAKE JUDGMENTS
THEREON BUT I DO WANT TO JUST
KIND OF SPELL OUT A FEW OF THE
ITEMS THAT WE ARE ASKING FOR A
VARIANCE FROM.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT OUR
SPRINKLER WATER MAIN TION IS
GOING TO BE INTERFACED IN THE
DIRECT AREA IN FRONT FACING
EAST OF THE STATE STREET
FACADE.
AGAIN THIS BUILDING IS A FEW A
FEW BUILDINGS SOUTH OF NICHOLS'
R.K. JUST FOR EVERYONE'S
IMAGINATION HERE WE ARE ON THE
WEST SIDE OF STATE STREET.
>> WE PLAN TO PUT THAT FIRE
DEPARTMENT IN ACTION ON THAT
EAST SIDE AND THE QUESTION CAME
UP DUE TO THE RADIUS TO THE
ACCESSIBLE HYDRANTS IN A WAY
THAT IS NOT A CLUE TO FIRE
APPARATUS ACCESS AIKA A FIRE
ROAD IN OUR STATE STATE STREET
AND OR NORTHVIEW THERE IS THAT
ONE THAT ONE FIRE HYDRANT JUST
AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF NORTHVIEW AND STATE STREET.
IT'S RIGHT BY THE OPENING THE
NICHOLS' ARCADE AND WHILE IT IS
ON THE SAME SIDE ON THE SAME
SIDEWALK AND WE WOULD NOT BE
BLOCKING ANY STREETS OR FIRE
APPARATUS WAYS IT IS WITH
OUTSIDE OF THE RADIUS OF EVEN
THE ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOOT
RADIUS.
SO WE WE FULLY UNDERSTAND THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND WE ARE
THEREFORE ASKING NOT SO MUCH
FOR THE MISINTERPRETATION AS IT
WAS BEFORE A RECONSIDERATION
OF THE CODE OFFICIAL'S OPINION
FOR THIS AND SIMILAR SIMILAR
VARIANCES IN PAST FOR EXISTING
RFQS THAT MAY HAVE BEEN OUTSIDE
OF A NORMAL RADIUS NOW I KNOW
THAT THERE HAVE BEEN MULTIPLE
REFERENCES TO THE IFRS AND FIRE
MARSHAL REDMOND HAS ALSO MADE
IT CLEAR THAT THE THE IFC IS
NOT EXACTLY WHAT HE WAS CITING
IN HIS EMAIL RESPONSES PRIOR TO
THIS MEETING AND I UNDERSTAND
THAT HE IS ALSO REFERENCING THE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE STANDARD
SPECIFICATIONS PUBLIC SERVICES
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS WHICH
IS A CITY STANDARD SPEC
REQUIREMENT THROUGH THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND THAT
THESE ARE MINIMUM STANDARDS
OF THE CITY ENGINEERS HAVE
RECENTLY RELEASED.
I WOULD LIKE TO SPECIFY THAT
THE ARTICLE THREE WATER DESIGN
CRITERIA WITH A FIRE HYDRANT
SPACING AND COVERAGE THAT WAS
READ A FEW MINUTES AGO ITEM C
OR THE ACCESSIBLE HYDRANT SHALL
BE REQUIRED WITHIN ONE HUNDRED
FEET OF A FIRE DEPARTMENT
CONNECTION AND SIMILARLY UNDER
NFPA THIRTEEN ARE THE MAXIMUM
SEPARATION DISTANCE SHALL BE
INCREASED TO WITHIN ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY FEET OF AN FDC FOR
THIRTEEN ARE BOTH OF THOSE ARE
ALMOST CIRCULAR REFERENCES WITH
THE AFC SO WHILE I DON'T
DISAGREE THAT YOU DID NOT SAY
THE AFC I DO ALSO AGREE THAT
THE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE STANDARD
SPECIFICATIONS DO HAVE ALMOST
CIRCULAR REFERENCES TO THE AFC
REQUIREMENTS SPECIFICALLY FOR
NFPA THERE ARE EVEN BEEBER THE
WRITE UP SITES THIS THERE'S TWO
THERE'S TWO QUESTIONS THAT COME
OFF OF THIS NO ONE IS THE DATE
AT WHICH WE HAD SUBMITTED THE
PERMIT BACK IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
THESE STANDARDS DID NOT EXIST
IN THEIR FORM.
THEY WERE MADE FROM THE
HISTORIC BACKGROUND.
SO WITHOUT SAYING EX POST FACTO
I WILL I WILL SAY THAT THERE
THERE WAS NOT THE STANDARDS TO
HAVE BEEN RESPONDED TO DURING
OUR PERMITTING PROCESS BACK IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND EVEN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AFTER WE GOT
THE VARIANCE FROM THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
SO I'LL PUT THAT ON THE SIDE
WHILE I FURTHER DISCUSS.
LET'S LET'S ASSUME THOUGH THAT
WITH THIS CIRCULAR REFERENCE
THE THE NEW TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
STANDARDS BEING APPLIED THE
QUESTION IS IS THERE EVEN A
JURISDICTION FOR THE BUILDING
OF APPEALS TO MAKE A CALL ON
THIS WHILE WE SEEK RELIEF FROM
THESE RADIUSES OF THE EXISTING
HYDRANTS FOR OUR FIRE
SUPPRESSION WHICH IS INSIDE
OF A HISTORIC BUILDING WE WANT
TO MAKE A FEW ITEMS CLEAR IN
THE WAY THAT WE APPROACH THE
DESIGN INTENT FOR THIS BUILDING
SPECIFICALLY NOT ONLY THAT I
WAS I WAS CITING THE IFC SO
EVERYONE KIND OF UNDERSTANDS
WHERE I'M COMING FROM FROM THE
ARCHITECTURAL BUILDING
CODE PERSPECTIVE WHERE THERE
ARE OFTEN EXEMPTIONS FOR
RADIUSES WITH FIRE
CODE APPROVAL, FIRE CODE ,
OFFICIAL APPROVAL FOR OUR THREE
OCCUPANCIES.
SIMILARLY HYDRANTS IN CLOSE
PROXIMITY AND THEN THERE'S ALSO
THE SIMILAR UNDUE BURDEN
OF FINANCIAL HARDSHIP WHICH WE
USED LATER LAST YEAR FOR THE
SAME ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
FOR THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
RIGHT NOW OUR OUR BUILDING
ITSELF, THE ASSESSED VALUE IS
OF ITS VALUE RIGHT NOW AT FIVE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY SIX THOUSAND
EIGHT HUNDRED SIXTY EIGHT
DOLLARS PER THE BSA, THE TOTAL
ASSESSED VALUE FROM THE POINT
OF BSA INCEPTION IS ABOUT ONE
POINT NINE MILLION.
BUT THE THE UNDUE BURDEN
OF FINANCIAL HARDSHIP VERY
SIMILAR TO WE HAVE DONE AND GOT
APPROVED OF THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN ACCESSIBILITY
VARIANCE WAS A FOUR HUNDRED AND
FORTY ONE THOUSAND THREE
HUNDRED FEE INCLUDING THE FIRE
HYDRANT ADDITION MAINTENANCE
FEES RIGHT OF WAY FEES AND TION
AND SHUTDOWN FEES ALL OF WHICH
CONSTITUTE EIGHTY SIX PERCENT
OF OUR TOTAL CONSTRUCTION
BUDGET WHICH WOULD BE ABOUT
HALF THE TOTAL VALUATION OF THE
BUILDING.
SO WHILE THAT HAS BEEN USED IN
THE PAST SUCCESSFULLY WITH THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN FOR
ACCESSIBILITY, I WITHHOLD USING
THAT RIGHT NOW FOR THIS BECAUSE
I WANT TO FOCUS MORE SO ON THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS OF THE
HYDRANTS JUST OUTSIDE THE
RADIUS AND THE ASSUMPTION
OF APPLICABILITY OF THE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE STANDARDS.
THE LAST TWO ITEMS I'LL SPECIFY
BEFORE I OPEN UP TO QUESTIONS
ON THE VARIANCE FOR THE
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION AND THE
VARIANCE FOR THE EXISTING
HYDRANT TO BE USED JUST OUTSIDE
OF THE RADIUS FOR OUR
PROVIDENCE OF THE DC.
I AGREE THAT THE STANDARD HAS
NOT BEEN MISINTERPRETED.
IT WAS VERY WELL INTERPRETED.
THE QUESTION IS DOES IT APPLY
TO OUR LOCATION BECAUSE OF TWO
THINGS A DATE OF WHICH IT WAS
CREATED AND PUT INTO EFFECT AND
SECONDARILY THE SIMILAR
REQUIREMENTS OF THE IFC THAT WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO PETITION FOR A
VARIANCE IF NOT HERE THAN AT
OTHER APPEALS LEVELS.
LASTLY, I WANTED TO READ THE
SAME HYDRANT SPACING AND
COVERAGE WHERE THE NFPA 13 ARE
REQUIRED ARE MADE.
WE WE HAVE BEEN WE HAVE
PROVIDED A FEW RADIUS DRAWINGS
FROM NOT ONLY THE SOUTH END BUT
MORE SO APPLICABLE TO THE NORTH
END OF OUR THREE THREE SIX
SOUTH STATE BUILDING WHERE THE
APPROVED FIRE DEPARTMENT
CONNECTION LOCATION IS PLANNED
TO BE PUT IN THAT RADIUS IS
JUST OUTSIDE OF 163 FEET FROM
THAT POINT TO THAT FIRE HYDRANT
AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF STATE AND NORTH.
YOU SO WE FIND THAT WE ARE JUST
OUTSIDE OF THE REQUIRED RADIUS
IS NOT ONLY ALIGNING TO THE AFC
BUT ALSO TO THE TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE PUBLIC WORKS BUILDING
STANDARDS.
SO WE WOULD REQUEST NOT ONLY
THE THE OPINION OF THE
CODE OFFICIAL TO BE ALLOWED IS
A VARIANCE OUTSIDE OF THAT
RADIUS BUT ALSO IF IF THAT IS
NOT THE CASE IN THE QUESTION
THEN BECOMES A METHOD
OF JURISDICTION OF THE BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS BEING ABLE TO
EVEN RULE ON THIS BECAUSE IT IS
A BUILDING STANDARD AND NOT SO
AN ISSUE TO STATE STANDARD THEN
WE WOULD ALSO SIMILARLY
SIMILARLY REQUEST THE VARIANCE
OR A MOTION OR AN AMENDED
MOTION THEN FOR THE VARIANCE
BASED OFF OF THAT RADIUS ALONE
WE DO HAVE THE EXISTING
CONDITION OF A NON SPRINKLED R
THREE HISTORIC STRUCTURE AND WE
HAVE AGREED TO NOT ONLY PUT IN
A SPRINKLER SYSTEM ON THAT
LEVEL TO INCREASE THE FIRE
SAFETY BUT WE HAVE ALSO AGREED
FURTHER WITH AN INCREASED COST
OF ABOUT A HUNDRED SEVENTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO ADD THE
STAFF AND FDC AND WE FIND THAT
NOT I HAVEN'T EVEN FACTOR THAT
INTO THE FOUR HUNDRED AND FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLAR EIGHTY SIX
PERCENT OF OUR CURRENT
CONSTRUCTION BUDGET.
SO I WOULD PUT IT EVEN HIGHER
WHICH WOULD BE COMMENSURATE
WITH THE SIMILAR APPROVAL WE
GOT FROM THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
FOR THE ACCESSIBILITY AS A
PERCENTAGE.
LASTLY BEFORE I CLOSE UP, I
KNOW SOMETIMES
I HAVE A
PROPENSITY TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
TOO MUCH THE EXISTING HISTORIC
BUILDING ITSELF DOES HAVE A FEW
RIDERS IN THE THE VARIANCE
EXCEPTION REQUEST THAT WAS
GIVEN THROUGH STREAM HIGH
SPECIFICALLY AND ONE OR TWO
POINT SIX AND ONE HUNDRED THREE
POINT ONE POINT ONE WHICH
COVERS HISTORIC BUILDING
APPLICATION THROUGH THE IFC
PROVISIONS ARE NOT MANDATORY
FOR EXISTING HISTORIC
STRUCTURES PROVIDED THE PROJECT
ADHERES TO A FIRE PROTECTION
PLAN WHICH MR REDMAN HAD ALSO
RAISED AN ISSUE THAT THERE'S
NOT A SIMILAR PATHWAY FOR
EXCEPTION THROUGH THE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY FIVE
BUILDING STANDARDS IT'S PURELY
IFC EXCEPTION PATHWAY SO THAT
REALLY IS THE QUESTION OF THE
APPLICABILITY OF EITHER AND
DOES THE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
BUILDING STANDARDS THAT WERE SO
RECENTLY RELEASED NOT APPLY
BECAUSE IT'S EX POST FACTO FROM
THE TIME WE EVEN HAD THE PERMIT
ISSUED IN SIMILAR REVISIONS AND
WRITE DONE THROUGH THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
WITH THAT I'LL HAND IT OVER TO
THE BOARD AND CITY OFFICIALS
FOR ANY QUESTIONS.
HAVE IT HERE.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU GOT A REBUTTAL FROM YEAH
I WOULD LIKE TO MENTION ONE
THING THAT THESE CITY STANDARDS
WERE REWRITTEN IN TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE THE EXACT VERBIAGE FOUND
FOR ARTICLE THREE FOR THE WATER
IS IDENTICAL AND IT DID EXIST
WHEN YOU APPLIED IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE.
THE ONLY THING THAT HAPPENED
HERE IS I JUST TOOK THE MOST
CURRENT ONE OFFLINE.
WHAT'S FOR THE CITY.
BUT THEY EXISTED IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE SAME VERBIAGE
IDENTICAL SO THAT ASPECT JUST
SO FOR THE BOARD OF APPEALS
MEMBERS NO THESE CITY STANDARDS
WHICH IS WHAT THE COMMON
TERMINOLOGY HERE WITHIN OUR
DEPARTMENTS WITHIN THE CITY
HERE WE REFER TO CITY
STANDARDS.
THEY'VE BEEN IN EXISTENCE AND
WERE IN EXISTENCE WITH THAT
EXACT VERBIAGE IN TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
>> OK, I DO AGREE WITH THEM AS
FAR AS I WILL SAY THIS I AGREE
WITH THE HISTORICAL ASPECT IN
YOUR CODE PATH THAT THE FIRE
PROTECTION FOR THIS WOULD TAKE
YOU TO NFPA 940 AND THAT COMES
OFF OF A USUALLY PERFORMANCE
BASED SYSTEM WHICH IS A VERY
IT'S A COMPLICATED ROUTE TO SAY
THE LEAST.
IT IS SO I WON'T ARGUE THE
HISTORICAL BUILDING STUFF.
YOU WILL HEAR ME ARGUE THAT THE
I QUESTION AUTHORITY OVER THE
CITY STANDARDS TO BE THE RULE
OVER THEM BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
CODE , THEY'RE STANDARDS AND
THEY'RE NOT FIRE CODE AND IF
I'M ENFORCING THEM IN THE CITY
ENGINEERS ARE ENFORCING THEM.
THAT MEANS YOU WOULD HAVE TO
TAKE THE CITY ENGINEERS TO A
BOARD OF APPEALS AND YOU CAN'T
DO THAT.
THE SECOND PART OF THAT IS YOU
THE I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERN
AND I COMMEND YOU FOR TRYING TO
SUPPRESS A BUILDING THAT MAYBE
YOU DIDN'T HAVE TO SUPPRESS.
I WASN'T PART OF THE ORIGINAL
SEVILLE PLANS FOR THIS SO I'M
USUALLY NOT PART OF THAT.
I WAS BROUGHT IN BECAUSE OF THE
FTC IN A SUPPORTING HIJRAH.
BUT THE ONE THING I DO STAND
AND HOLD FIRM IS THAT MONEY IF
YOU'RE GOING TO PUT A SYSTEM IN
THE SYSTEM SHOULD BE COMPLIANT
PER CODE AND IF THAT BECOMES A
HARDSHIP FOR MONEY THEN THEY
SHOULD HAVE WENT DOWN THE
AVENUE OF TRYING TO PUT THE
SYSTEM IN BECAUSE IF THAT'S THE
CASE, ANYONE COULD TRY TO PUT A
SYSTEM TO A BUILDING AND SAY I
DON'T NEED TO DO IT SO I'M
GOING TO DO IT.
I'M GOING TO DO IT MY WAY.
SO IF YOU'RE GOING TO PUT A
SYSTEM IN IT SHOULD FOLLOW THE
CODE PATH TO MAKE SURE THE
SYSTEM IS DONE TO THE CURRENT
CODES.
SO DO WE HAVE JURISDICTION OR
DON'T WE GET THAT'S I MEAN WHY
ISN'T THIS BECAUSE I ASKED THAT
QUESTION JUST OFF JUST QUICKLY
I WOULD HAVE AGREED RIGHT OFF
THE BAT WITH THEM BASED ON THE
LETTER THAT WAS IN THE PACKET
THAT IF THEY HAD THEIR PERMIT
BEFORE THE STANDARD EFFECTIVE
DATE THEN THEY THEY DIDN'T HAVE
ANY REASON TO COMPLY WITH THE
104 RULE.
BUT IT EXISTS POINT AND YEAH,
YOU MADE THAT REAL THAT'S SO
THAT'S THAT I DO NOT KNOW I
CAN'T ANSWER YOUR QUESTION FOR
YOU.
I HAVE POSED THAT QUESTION.
I EMAILED MOST OF THE PEOPLE IN
THIS ROOM THAT VERY QUESTION
TRYING TO GET AN ANSWER BEFORE
WE GOT TO THIS DAY BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU GUYS HAVE
EVER HAD TO RULE ON CITY
STANDARDS
NOT THE LEAST
OF WHICH IS PART OF THE PART
OF THE DESCRIPTION HERE IS THAT
WE'RE NOT ALLOWED TO CONSIDER
BETTER OR EQUAL FORMS THAT'S
AND THAT'S WRITTEN THROUGH THE
MUNICIPAL CODE WHERE THE FIRE
CODES ARE LEGALLY ADOPTED.
SO THAT'S A WHOLE NOTHER ASPECT
OF WHAT'S HOW IT DIFFERS A
LITTLE BIT FROM BUILDING
CODE TO FIRE CODE .
AND I HAVE ONE VERY TWO VERY
QUICK CLARIFICATION THINGS THE
CODE THE BUILDING OFFICIAL
CODE WRITE-UP SAYS THAT THE
SPRINKLER SYSTEM WAS REQUIRED.
>> I WROTE THAT UP BECAUSE
THERE IS QUESTION OF AN EMAIL
CORRESPONDENCE THAT AT SOME
POINT THEY WANTED TO GO THE
ROUTE OF A 13 D SYSTEM WHICH
DOES NOT REQUIRE AN FTC.
>> ONCE AGAIN, I WAS NOT PART
OF THE CIVIL PLAN OF BUILDING
PLAN REVIEWS FOR THIS.
I'M USUALLY NOT FOR EXISTING
BUILDINGS.
I USUALLY ONLY HANDLE NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
I'M ONLY BROUGHT IN UNDER THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES WHEN THIS APPLIES
TO AN FDC AND A SUPPORTING
HYDRANT.
WITH THAT SAID, THERE IS EMAIL
OF COURSE BECAUSE THEY WANT TO
DO A 13 D.
THAT WAS ADDRESSED TO THE
BUILDING OFFICIAL MIKE WITH ME
SO I CAN LET HIM ANSWER IT BUT
IT WAS DENIED BASED OFF THE
OCCUPANCY OR PROPER FIRE
SEPARATION I BELIEVE BETWEEN
OCCUPANCIES.
SO WHAT BROUGHT IT BACK TO
HAVING A MIXED OCCUPANCY
REQUIRING AN NFPA 13 SYSTEM
CORRECT?
YEAH.
SO THE SYSTEM IS REQUIRED FIRE
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM IS REQUIRED.
IT'S NOT A GOODWILL GESTURE ON
THEIR PART.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
IT'S GOING BACK TO WHAT YOU
SAID THAT GOING IN THE SYSTEM
YOU HAVE TO PUT IT IN SOUP TO
NUTS I THINK I THINK TO ANSWER
TO THIS AND I WON'T I HATE TO
SAY THIS BUT I'M GOING TO SAY
IT ANYWAYS.
I KNOW IF THE SYSTEM WAS
REQUIRED THEY HAVE A CODE PATH
THAT YOU CAN GO DOWN FOR
HISTORICAL BUILDINGS.
IT TAKES THEM TO AN NFPA 914
PAMPHLET WHICH IS A VERY
SPECIFIC FOR HISTORICAL
BUILDINGS AND THERE'S A
CODE PATH FOR FIRE PROTECTION
COMPLIANCE UNDER THAT CODE BOOK
THERE'S PRESCRIPTION AND THEN
THERE'S PERFORMANCE MORE LIKELY
PRESCRIPTION WOULD BRING YOU
RIGHT BACK TO THE CODE BOOK SO
YOU WOULDN'T WANT TO GO THAT
OUT.
YOU'D WANT TO GO PERFORMANCE.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT WOULD BE
THAT PERFORMANCE SYSTEM, THE
POINTS BASED SYSTEM BASICALLY
YEAH.
>> YEAH.
AND IT'S BASICALLY TRYING TO
MEET THE SAME STANDARDS IN A
DIFFERENT ROUTE AND THAT'S WHAT
A PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM IS
AND EASIER TO UNDERSTAND TERMS
IT'S TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH WHAT
THE PRESCRIBED SYSTEM WOULD BE
WITHOUT DOING THE PRESCRIBED
ROUTE.
SO OK CAN I WEIGH IN A LITTLE
BIT TOO SO YOU FOLKS EXIST
BECAUSE STATE LAW MCO ONE
TWENTY FIVE POINT ONE FIVE ONE
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION BOARD
OF APPEALS PART OF THE STILL
DARVOCET SINGLE STATE
CONSTRUCTION ACT.
YOU GUYS THANK YOU.
MY APOLOGIES.
YOU EXIST BECAUSE OF THE STATE
LAW THAT SAYS THAT CONSTRUCTION
BUT OF APPEALS FOR EACH
GOVERNMENTAL SUBDIVISION
ENFORCING THE CODE THE
CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE
CREATED OF NOT LESS THAN THREE
OR NO MORE THAN SEVEN MATTERS.
AND IT SAYS THAT IF AN
ENFORCING AGENCY REFUSES WHAT
SHOULD BE US REFUSED TO GRANT
AN APPLICATION FOR A BUILDING
PERMIT OR THE ENFORCING AGENCY
MAKES ANY OTHER DECISION TO
PURSUE IT OR RELATED TO THIS
ACT OR THE CODE AN INTEREST IN
PERSON OR THE PSONS
AUTHORIZED AGENT MAY AND MAY
APPEAL IN WRITING TO THE BOARD
OF APPEALS.
SO BUT THEN THAT GOES ON TO SAY
THIS ACT DOES NOT PREVENT A
GOVERNMENTAL SUBDIVISION FROM
GRANTING ITS BOARD OF APPEALS.
YOU FORCE ADDITIONAL POWERS OR
DUTIES NOT INCONSISTENT WITH
THIS ACT AND WE'VE DONE THAT IN
OUR IN OUR ORDINANCE WHICH SAYS
WHENEVER THE CHIEF OR FIRE
MARSHAL SHALL DISAPPROVE OF AN
APPLICATION OR REFUSE TO GRANT
A PERMIT APPLIED FOR OR WHEN IT
IS CLAIMED THAT THE PROVISIONS
OF THIS CODE THAT IS THE CITY
CODE DO NOT APPLY OR THE TRUE
INTENT AND MEANING OF THE
CODE HAVE BEEN MISCONSTRUED OR
WRONGLY INTERPRETED, THE
APPLICANT MAY APPEAL FROM THE
CHIEF OR FIRE MARSHAL'S
DECISION TO THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS WITHIN 30 DAYS.
SO YOU FOLKS HAVE JURISDICTION
SO TO SPEAK TO TO WEIGH IN TO
RULE RULE ON APPEALS THAT ARE
CONSTRUCTION CODE BASE AND
THERE'S A LOT OF CONSTRUCTION
CODES IN THAT STALE DROST YOU
KNOW WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT THE
ROSSETT CODE AT AND YOU ALSO
HAVE AUTHORITY TO WEIGH IN ON
FIRE CODE STUFF NOW WITH
RESPECT TO THE THE CITIES, THE
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND I
THINK THAT'S AT LEAST IN YOUR
PACKET IN PART WHERE SUE
MCCORMACK GOT OUR ISSUE THE NEW
ONES IN JANUARY OF THIS YEAR.
THOSE SAY THAT IF IF IT IF IT'S
JUST SOMETHING THAT'S NOT
CODE BASED, NOT BUILDING
CODE BASED OR FIRE BASED BUT
IT'S ONLY STANDARD SPECIFIC IT
DOES SAY THAT VARIATION AND
REVISIONS TO THE STANDARDS
MINOR TECHNICAL VARIATIONS,
REVISIONS THAT THE PUBLIC
SERVICES ADMINISTRATOR AREA
ADMINISTRATOR MAY PERMIT
VARIATIONS TO THESE STANDARDS
WERE UNUSUAL CONDITIONS OR
CIRCUMSTANCES WARRANT WHICH
THESE FOLKS MIGHT SAY EXISTS
BUT YOU'RE NOT THE PUBLIC
SERVICES AREA ADMINISTRATOR AND
YOU OF COURSE KNOW AND THEN AS
NEEDED THE FAA WILL ISSUE
GENERAL REVISIONS
OF THESE
STANDARDS THAT RELATE TO THE
TECHNICAL ASPECTS SO IF IT'S
RELIEF ONLY FROM THE STANDARDS
THEN THEN WHO IS THE FAA?
MY APOLOGIES FOR NOT KNOWING
THE PUBLIC SERVICES AREA
ADMINISTRATOR.
YEAH, I THINK HE USED TO BE
SUED BUT HIS DAUGHTER SO HE HE
WOULD BE THAT PERSON NOW LET'S
SAY GEORGIA SAYS NO YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO DO IT YOU'RE YES.
THEN AND THEN WE HAVE AN
ORDINANCE GENERALLY THAT STATES
AND THIS IS SECTION ONE CALL IN
SIXTEEN A DUE PROCESS HEARING
UNLESS THERE'S A SPECIFIC
APPEAL PROCESS OTHERWISE SET
FORTH IN OUR CODE YOU CAN DO A
WRITTEN APPEAL WITH A CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND NOT YOU BUT
YOU CAN DO AND YOU'RE THE
APPLICANT THE PERSON DENIED CAN
DO A WRITTEN APPLICATION OR
APPEAL WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND YOU'RE
ENTITLED TO A DO PROCESS
HEARING TO DETERMINE, YOU KNOW,
THE MERITS OF YOUR CLAIM.
SO IF IT'S CODE BASED BUILDING
OR FIRE YOU ALL ARE THE RIGHT
BODY TO DO THAT.
IF IT'S STRICTLY STANDARD THEN
IT'S SO THAT'S THAT'S KIND
OF WHERE WE ARE ULTIMATELY YOU
GET YOU GET YOUR DAY IN COURT
AND I DON'T NEED COURT BUT I
MEAN YOU GET YOUR DAY FOR OR
FOR A HEARING YOUR DUE PROCESS
NOTICE AND PRESENT YOUR CASE.
>> COULD I ASK A CLARIFYING
QUESTION TO MR. REISER ABOUT
THE IF THE BUILDING CODE IS
REFERENCED IN THE CITY
STANDARDS WITH THE AUTHORITY,
THEN IT'S BACK TO THE WAY I
THINK ULTIMATELY IF THERE'S
SOME ASPECT OF THIS BUILDING
CODE OR FIRE CODE , THIS IS THE
BODY BEFORE THE PROPER FOUR GOT
IT RIGHT.
WE CAN BUT WE'RE SEVERELY
LIMITED BECAUSE TYPICALLY WE
ARE ALLOWED TO HAVE A THIRD
OPTION WHICH IS THAT THE
APPLICANT IS PROVIDED A BETTER
OR EQUAL FORM OF PROTECTION
FIRE PROTECTION OR CONSTRUCTION
AND ACCORDING TO THIS WE DON'T
HAVE THAT LATITUDE.
>> IT'S EITHER YES OR NO.
WE CAN GO IN TO THE FIRE CODE .
WE CAN'T GIVE YOU THE CITY
CODE DIDN'T GO TO THE
ADMINISTRATOR THAT WE'RE STILL
WE'RE STILL YEAH.
PUMPING UP AGAINST THE STANDARD
BUT JUST TO CHANGE THINGS TONE
FOR A SECOND SIR, RIGHT IN YOUR
POCKET IF YOU SHOW THE HYDRANTS
THERE ARE IN AND AROUND STATE
STREET.
YES THAT'S RIGHT.
BUT YOU'VE DEVOTED THREE PAGES
TO SOMETHING THAT'S ON MAIN
STREET.
RIGHT.
I TRIED TO SUBLIMINALLY LOOK AT
AFTER WE INITIALLY PETITIONED
PASSED THE INITIAL PERMIT
APPROVAL AND THEN WE'RE GOING
TO OFFER A SPRINKLER.
OH, DO WE HAVE THE OPTION FOR
AN FTC?
AND THAT'S WHERE THE EMAIL
CORRESPONDENCE HAPPENED BETWEEN
MR. AND MR. RED AMENDMENT AND A
FEW OF MY OTHER COLLEAGUES AS
WELL ABOUT THE NEED FOR THE FTC
BECAUSE WE KNEW THE FTC WOULD
BE A TRIGGER THROUGH IFC FOR
THE RADIUSES FOR THE HYDRANTS
AND THEN WE WERE JUST OUTSIDE
THOSE RADIUSES.
SO AS A TERTIARY MEASURE I
BEYOND THAT FIRST RUN OF THE
RADIUSES FOR THE HYDRANTS I WAS
LOOKING AT THE RUN FROM MAYBE
FTC AND THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING WHICH WOULDN'T HAVE
BEEN APPROVED ANYWAY SO IT WAS
KIND OF MOOT AT THIS POINT.
IT WAS MY IDEA OF TRYING TO
MAKE THE RADIUS EVEN SHORTER
WHICH IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BUT IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN COMING OFF THE
REAR OF THE BUILDING WHICH
WOULDN'T HAVE MET THE CLEAR AND
PRESENT SIGNAGE FOR AN FTC AND
THAT'S STILL OVER AND ABOVE WE
PETITION FOR THIRTEEN D WHICH
DIDN'T APPLY BECAUSE THE
EXISTING R THREE USE AS
CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY
WASN'T CONSIDERED A TOWN HOME
OR A SINGLE OR TWO FAMILY
RESIDENCE WHICH IS NOT TO
CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY.
SO I TOTALLY AGREE WITH THAT.
WE TRIED WE THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
ACCEPTABLE AS A VARIANT BUT IT
WAS NOT SO THE FTC STILL HAD
REMAINED.
THE QUESTION THEN BECOMES JUST
THAT RADIUS TO THE HYDRANT BOTH
OF WHICH WERE I REALLY DON'T
WANT TO KEEP STAIRSTEP BECAUSE
I FEEL LIKE THE WHAT HAS BEEN
STARTED FROM A HISTORIC
BUILDING TO MAKE AN EFFORT
OF GOODWILL FOR FURTHER SAFETY
IT JUST KEEPS GROWING GROWING
TO THE POINT THAT IT'S
THOROUGHLY UNSUSTAINABLE NOT
ONLY FOR A BUILDING BUDGET.
AND I AGREE THAT RIGHT NOW WHAT
I'M USED TO HAVING THAT THIRD
OPTION WHERE THERE IS SOME KIND
OF MEDIUM OPTION OF FINDING A
SAFE ROUTE BUT NOW THAT THERE'S
ONLY A BLACK AND WHITE EITHER
FOR CITY STANDARDS ARE NONE,
THE QUESTION THEN BECOMES A ARE
THERE OTHER ACCEPTABLE
PERFORMANCE BASED OPTIONS THAT
WOULD BE AMENABLE THE CITY
STANDARDS OR DO WE FOLLOW SOME
OPTION OF PRIMARY VISION TAKING
THE FIRE SUPPRESSION SCOPE OUT
AND JUST REMOVING IT COMPLETELY
AND WE GO RIGHT BACK TO WHERE
WE WERE WHEREAS IN UNSUPPRESSED
BUILDING I DON'T WANT TO DO AS
THE ARCHITECT OF RECORD BECAUSE
IT WOULD MAKE IT EQUALLY SAFE
AS IT WAS WHEN WE STARTED THE
PROJECT.
BUT WE'VE ALREADY DONE SO FAR
MAKING IT SAFER.
I DON'T WANT TO I DON'T WANT TO
BACKTRACK LIKE THAT.
SO WHILE I ALSO SEE YOUR YOU'RE
TOO BLACK AND WHITE OPTIONS
WHERE WE'RE USED TO KIND
OF HAVING A THIRD I WOULD OPEN
THAT BACK UP TO THE BOARD FOR
AN OPTION WHEN YOUR ONLY OPTION
B GO BACK TO NFPA 914 D THEN
JOHN CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG
I'M SORRY.
YEAH, I'M JUST THINKING IF THEY
WERE DENIED HERE THERE'S STILL
AN APPEAL PROCESS THROUGH THE
STANDARDS IS THAT CORRECT?
WELL, I GUESS I MEAN YOU HAVE
THE RIGHT TO INTERPRET THE
CODE AND IT SAYS THAT THE BOARD
OF APPEALS SHALL HEAR THE
APPEAL AND RENDER AND FILE ITS
DECISION WITH THE STATEMENTS
OF THE REASON FOR YOUR DECISION
WHATEVER YOUR DECISION IS, YOUR
DECISION COULD SAY YOU'RE GOING
TO HAVE PEOPLE IN FRONT
OF WATER BALLOONS.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO DO THAT.
BUT WHATEVER YOUR DECISION IS
AND THE REASONS THEREFORE
THAT'S GOING TO BE PART OF PART
OF PART OF THE RECORD THAT YOU
CREATE IF IF IT'S NOT LIKE I
SAY BUILDING CODE BASED OR FIRE
CODE BASED, THEN THIS REALLY
WOULD BE AN APPROPRIATE FORUM
FOR THAT.
IT WOULD BE JORDAN ROBERTS CAME
TO ME THERE'S THE PUBLIC
SERVICES AREA ADMINISTRATOR AND
THEN IF YOU THEN JORDAN CONFER
RELIEF AND BUT YOU'RE ENTITLED
TO A DUE PROCESS HEARING THERE
AS WELL IN FRONT OF HIM.
YOU KNOW, NOBODY'S GOING TO
PRESENT YOUR CASE AND THINGS
LIKE YOU'VE DONE HERE IS PRETTY
REDUNDANT BUT OR SIMILAR RATHER
.
WOULD THERE BE A WAY TO
DELINEATE THEN THE PORTIONS THE
CITY STANDARDS THAT WOULD
ACTUALLY BE REFERENCES TO
BUILDING CODE THAT THE BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS COULD RULE ON
AND WHAT COULD BE THE CITY THIS
BODY HAS REALLY THIS BODY HAS
THE AUTHORITY TO TO GRANT
RELIEF TO FIRE BUILDING
CODE PROVISIONS.
HOWEVER, REFERENCED YEAH RIGHT.
OK, I HAVE A QUESTION SO YOU
KNOW YOU GUYS YOU APPLIED FOR A
PERMIT.
YES.
IN THE RIGHT UP BACK FROM THE
PERMIT PROCESS WERE WAS IT
GIVEN YOU HAVE TO DESIGN PER
THESE SPECIFICATIONS OR SO IF I
CAN SPEAK FOR A MOMENT, SPEAK
ON BEHALF FOR BOTH SIDES HERE
TO TRY TO BE BENEFICIAL TO YOU
ARE A HISTORIC BUILDING AND I
BROUGHT THIS UP THEY THE
PATHWAY FROM THE VERY BEGINNING
OF THIS PROJECT WHICH I WAS NOT
PART OF BUT THE PATHWAY SHOULD
HAVE BEEN GOING THROUGH NFPA
914 FOR THIS ONCE AGAIN I
COMMEND YOU BECAUSE SOMETIMES
THAT PATHWAY IN 914 ISN'T A
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM BUT THERE IS
WAYS OF DOING THE PROTECTION
THAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR TO
PROVIDE THE OCCUPANCIES OF THAT
BUILDING THAT'S THE ULTIMATE
GOAL IS GETTING PEOPLE OUT
OF THE STRUCTURE I'VE NEVER
DEALT WITH.
I'LL BE BRUTALLY HONEST I'VE
NEVER DEALT WITH A PERFORMANCE
BASED SYSTEM.
I'M NOT SURE IF OUR BUILDING
DEPARTMENT HAS YET EITHER.
IT'S JUST NOT SOMETHING THERE.
BUT YOU KNOW, SOME OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDINGS THEY GO
THROUGH THIS PROCESS, THEY DO
IT AND MAYBE THEY LOCK OUT AND
THEY JUST HAPPEN TO HAVE THAT
EXISTING HEIDRICK RIGHT THERE
IF THEY PUT AN EMPTY SEAT THERE
AND THEY'RE COMPLIANT.
SO I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT
CODE PATH GOING BACK TO YOUR
ORIGINAL QUESTION, IF YOU WENT
BACK YOU WOULD AT LEAST HAVE TO
LOOK AT THE MINIMUM OF THAT
PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM.
THEY WOULD HAVE TO HAVE SOMEONE
ENGINEER WHAT WOULD BE A
PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM FOR
THAT BUILDING FOR THE OCCUPANCY
TYPE AND HOW CAN PEOPLE GET OUT
SAFELY?
IT MAY INCORPORATE THE SYSTEM
YOU GOT IT STILL HAS TO BE
APPROVED BUT IT DOESN'T GO
AROUND THIS NOW THE PROBLEM IS
I THINK THAT'S GOING TO ALWAYS
HOLD TRUE IS ONCE YOU IF YOU
HAVEN'T ENOUGH ON THAT BUILDING
THE CITY STANDARDS APPLY
BECAUSE THE PERSON THAT'S GOING
TO REVIEW THAT THE FIRST PERSON
REVIEWS IS A CIVIL ENGINEERS,
NOT ME.
I WAS BROUGHT INTO THIS BY THE
CIVIL ENGINEERS BECAUSE IT'S A
DUAL THING FOR THE CITY
STANDARDS.
IT'S REVIEWED BY OUR CIVIL
ENGINEERS.
IT'S REVIEWED BY ME, YOU KNOW
AND UNFORTUNATELY A FIRE
CODE FOR YOU GUYS WHETHER IT'S
FOR THE APPEALS A NINE ONE TWO
EIGHT IT DOESN'T GIVE THAT
THIRD OPTION.
IT'S EITHER I MISAPPLY OR
MISINTERPRETED GOOD LIFE SAFETY
CODE .
THEY DON'T GIVE THE THIRD
OPTION IN THAT APPEALS PROCESS
FROM FAR RIGHT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE PROPER
ROUTE IS FROM HERE.
I MEAN CLEARLY YOU GUYS CAN TRY
TO RULE THAT I EITHER
MISINTERPRETED OR MISAPPLIED
BUT I THINK WE ALL KNOW I
DIDN'T AND THAT'S EVEN IF A
RULING ON THE CITY STORY WE'RE
SEEING IT AGAIN THIS WEEK WHERE
THE DIFFERING OPINION THE THE
OTHER USE OF THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS IS TO REQUEST
DIFFERENT CODE OFFICIALS
OPINION AND THAT'S WHY I WAS
TRYING TO GET THE LOW HANGING
FRUIT OF 13 FEET OUTSIDE OF THE
RADIUS FOR THE HYDRANT.
CAN WE JUST USE THE EXISTING
HYDRANT AS THE EASIER OPTION
FOR APPROVAL FROM A BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS THAT THAT
WOULD CONCURRENTLY IF IT WERE
ACCEPTED IT WOULD SATISFY THE
NON BLOCKING FIRE APPARATUS
ROUTE AND THE HYDRANT WITHIN
THE AREA OF THE BUILDING
STANDARDS AS WELL.
AND IF THAT LOW HANGING FRUIT
OPTION VARIANCE IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT THAT WOULD BE
ACCEPTED EITHER BY THE BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS THROUGH THE
AFC
VARIANCES OR GOING THROUGH
IT MAY GO THROUGH PERFORMANCE
BASED SYSTEM DEPENDING ON THE
UNIQUENESS OF THE DESIGN.
I WISH I COULD OFFER YOU MORE
ON THAT.
I'M NOT THAT FAMILIAR WITH NFPA
TEAM FIRST OF ALL AND
PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEMS BUT
THAT MAY BE A ROUTE IF IT'S
ENGINEERED TO BE ABLE TO GO
THAT ROUTE AND GET IT APPROVED
AND I CAN'T REMEMBER AND MIKE
LEMIEUX IS THAT SYSTEM IT WAS
IT A NFPA THIRTEEN OR THIRTEEN
OUR SYSTEM I DON'T RECALL.
>> DO YOU KNOW WHAT OBVIOUSLY
THERE WAS A FIRE PROTECTION
ENGINEER THAT HANDLED THE
SYSTEM.
WAS THAT DESIGNED TO THIRTEEN
OR THIRTEEN OUR CURRENT MESA
APPLICATION AND WHAT SYMBOLS
USING IS THIRTEEN ARE WE WERE
TRYING TO PUT DOWN TO THIRTEEN
DB BECAUSE WE DIDN'T WANT THE
FTC THEN CREATING THE RADIUS
FOR THE HYDRANT AND THEN WE
JUST HAPPENED INTO THE WATER
MAIN SINCE WE WERE GOING FOR
BECAUSE OF OUR THREE
RESIDENTIAL USE GROUP AND
EXISTING RESIDENTIAL USE GROUP
WE WENT FOR 13 HOUR AND THAT
ONE DOES REQUIRE THE FTC AS HE
WROTE UP IN YOUR IN YOUR WRITE
UP SO AND I WAS 13 ARE IT WOULD
BE ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOOT
RIGHT.
AND WE'RE JUST 13 FEET OUTSIDE
OF THAT AND THAT'S THAT'S WHY I
WAS I WAS INITIALLY PETITIONING
FOR THAT AS THE VARIANCE JUST
BEING OUTSIDE OF THE RADIUS
WE'RE STILL PROVIDING THE
SPRINKLER SYSTEM IS THERE IN
NOW IT'S IN WE'RE GOING TO PUT
THE FTC AND THEN WE'RE JUST
WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO SEE IF
WE COULD USE THAT EXISTING
HYDRANT OTHERWISE IT'S A FULL
BUILDING SUPPRESSED OR JUST A
THIRD FLOOR RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST
THE THIRD FLOOR AND PORTIONS
OF THE FIRST THERE'S A SECOND
FLOOR BUT WE DO HAVE RAIDED
SEPARATION'S AND HORIZONTAL
RATED SEPARATIONS THAT ARE
SEPARATING OUR USERS COMPLETELY
SO AND THESE GENTLEMEN THIS
BOARD, THEY IF IT'S A CODE BASE
THEY'RE GOING TO WHEN CLAIM
THAT EITHER THE PROVISIONS
OF THE CODE DO NOT APPLY OR
THAT THE TRUE INTENT AND
MEANING OF THE CODE HAVE BEEN
MISCONSTRUED OR WRONGLY
INTERPRETED THAT THAT THERE DO
I THINK THAT EITHER OF THOSE
TWO TRACKS WE MIGHT SECOND
THOSE WOULD BE THE CODE SECTION
I BELIEVE YOU.
EXCUSE ME, DOES THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR HAVE MORE LEEWAY
IN REVIEWING THIS THAN WE DO?
>> I MEAN IF THEY WENT BACK HE
CAN'T CODE I MEAN NO, NO, NO,
NO, NO BUILDING CODE BUT ABOUT
THE CITY CODE , THIS IS THE
CITY STANDARD.
SO YOU CAN'T IF IF IF IF IF THE
DEFAULT IS TO THE CITY STANDARD
AND THEY'RE THE ONES THAT
CONTROL IT, DO THEY HAVE MORE
LEEWAY IN TERMS OF EVALUATING
THE LOCATION HYDRANTS RELATIVE
TO THEIR STANDARD AND BE ABLE
TO OFFER THEM THE FACT THAT
THEY HAVE IT PRODUCED TO
PRODUCE MORE EQUIVALENCY IN
FIRE PROTECTION THAN WE HAD?
>> WELL, IT WOULDN'T BE THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR I ASSUME
HE'S ALSO ALLEGED THAT IT'S
JUST A MINOR VARIATION BECAUSE
INSTEAD OF ONE FIFTY IT'S 167
OR WHATEVER WHATEVER THE CITY
IS FOR THE MEASURE IT'S JUST
THE PUBLIC.
THE PSA MAY PERMIT VARIATIONS
TO THE STANDARDS WHERE UNUSUAL
CONDITIONS ARE CIRCUMSTANCES
MORE SO THAT WOULD BE JORDAN
ROBIN ROBERTS.
SO ONE OF OUR OWN THAT THERE
WOULD BE RELIEF AND IF RELIEF
IS BASED UNDER THE CITY
STANDARDS AND NOT FIRE BUILDING
BUT THERE'S NO I MEAN I GUESS
IN THAT THERE'S NO UNUSUAL
CIRCUMSTANCE HERE.
YOU KNOW THEY'RE NOT BLOCKED
OFF.
THAT'S NOT IN THE BACK OF A
BUILDING.
IT'S NOT, YOU KNOW, UPHILL
THAT'S MILES AWAY FROM
SOMETHING LIKE THIS IS THIS
YOU'RE TALKING IT'S EIGHT OR 13
FEET OUTSIDE.
>> YEAH, BUT I WOULD SAY I
WOULD SAY THERE IS AN UNUSUAL
SET THAT WOULD BE UP TO THE
DEER IN THE OFFICIAL
CIRCUMSTANCE AND THE UNUSUAL
CONDITION OR CIRCUMSTANCES
WARRANT.
SO WE WOULD OPTION TO TABLE
THIS AND HAVE THE PSA GO AND
LET THEM MAKE A DETERMINATION
BECAUSE THEY'RE SUBSEQUENTLY BE
AN AMENDMENT TO THE MOTION FOR
APPROVAL PENDING THE PSA
APPROVAL.
SO IF THERE'S NOT A CODE ISSUE
HERE, DO YOU AGREE THEN WE
WOULDN'T I DON'T I DON'T
BELIEVE YOU KNOW, THESE GUYS
CAN'T WEIGH IN ON YOUR BUILDING
.
THEY GOT TO WEIGH IN ON THE
CODE .
SO SO YEAH.
SO I DON'T BELIEVE THAT THERE
WOULD BE IF IT'S NOT DIRECTLY
RELATED TO A CODE IF YOU'RE NOT
LOOKING FOR RELIEF FROM
DIRECTLY FROM THE BUILDING
CODE OR THE FIRE CODE , I DON'T
BELIEVE THIS IS THE GROUP TO TO
PROVIDE THAT FROM WHAT JOHN
PROVIDED IT SEEMS LIKE WHAT
REQUESTING IS A IS A VARIANCE
FROM A CITY STANDARD AND
THERE'S A DIFFERENT AVENUE FOR
THAT.
I THINK THAT THIS BOARD WAS
GOING TO MAKE A DECISION THEY
WOULD BASE THE SPECIFIC
CODE SECTIONS FROM THE IFC THAT
YOU PROVIDED AND THEN THEY
COULD, YOU KNOW, WEIGH IN
WHETHER THEY APPROVE THOSE OR
NOT.
BUT I THINK THAT THAT WOULD BE
WHAT THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO DO
WOULD A SIMILAR I GUESS A
SIMPLER OR AT LEAST MORE TIME
EFFECTIVE SOLUTION WOULD BE TO
AMEND THE VARIANCE REQUEST TO
THE PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM.
NOW SINCE ALL OF THE ITEMS ARE
ALREADY IN UNSUPPRESSED, WE
JUST NEED THE WATER TAP INTO IT
AND THAT COULD BE AND IT WOULD
BE A BUILDING CODE MOVEMENT AND
VARIANCE APPROVAL BY THIS BOARD
INSTEAD THROUGH THE THE CITY
STANDARDS.
WOULD YOU BE I SOULEYMAN LIKE
ON THE FLY OR WOULD BE ENTITLED
TO SOME KIND OF WRITTEN YOU YOU
WOULD HAVE TO YOU JUST AS YOU
SUBMIT FOR PROTECTION PLANS YOU
STILL TO SUBMIT THE PERFORMANCE
PLAN PLANS THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT TO REVIEW AND IT
WOULD BE THEM REVIEWING IT NOT
ME THE PLAN SAID ON AS YES YOU
YOU WERE LISTED AND SO YOU YOU
WOULD WANT AN ENGINEER AND ONCE
AGAIN I WISH I COULD GIVE YOU
MORE INFORMATION.
I WAS LIKE THEM.
YOU COULD GIVE YOU MORE
INFORMATION.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT I THINK
WE'VE EVER DEALT WITH WITH
PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEMS MOST
PEOPLE I'VE BEEN FORTUNATE WITH
HISTORICAL BUILDINGS THEY PUT A
SYSTEM IN AND HERE THEY HAVE
THE FUNDING AND IT WORKS OUT OR
THEY EVEN EXIST HERE AND IT
WORKS OUT FOR THEM WHEN THEY DO
SUPPRESSION WORK.
YOU DO HAVE THAT RIGHT.
YOU ABSOLUTELY HAVE THE RIGHT
TO GO TO PERFORMANCE BASED
SYSTEM BUT IT STILL HAS TO BE
REVIEWED AFTER IT'S YOU YOU
YOU'D HAVE TO FOLLOW NFPA 914
IT'S A VERY SMALL I'D SAY A
SMALL PAMPHLET ABOUT TEN
CHAPTERS BUT IT'S IT'S IT'S
LIKE ONE OF THE SMALLER ONES IS
THAT ONE OF THESE THINGS
BUILDING CODE HERE IT'S A LOT
SMALLER THAN THIS THE OTHER
ROUTE THAT THEY'RE TALKING
ABOUT AND TRUST ME GUYS, I
REALLY DID MY BEST TO TRY TO
FIND RESOLVE BEFORE WE GOT TO
THIS POINT TODAY OF TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHO HAD JURISTIC AND
AND WHO COULD RULE AND NOT.
THAT'S WHY I SENT EMAILS TO YOU
GUYS I WAS TRYING TO ANSWERS
AND WE USSERY HERE HAVE BEEN IN
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT IT TRYING
TO FIND ALL THE ANSWERS FOR YOU
BEFORE WE GOT HERE TODAY
BECAUSE IT'S NEVER HAPPENED AS
FAR AS I KNOW IT'S NEVER
HAPPENED.
I'M SURE THEY'RE GOING TO SAY
THE SAME THING.
THE CITY STANDARDS HAVE NEVER
AT LEAST ON THE FIRE SIDE BEEN
TAKEN TO THIS LEVEL.
IT'S ALWAYS BEEN DONE.
SO FIRST I WOULD ASK THIS TO
AND I WOULD LIKE TO FIND OUT
FOR SURE AND I GUESS I WOULD
TALK WITH HIM AND YOU GUYS TOO.
AND I DON'T KNOW THE OPTIONS
OF THIS BUT I WAS UNDER THE
IMPRESSION THAT IT WAS A NFPA
13 SYSTEM ALSO.
THAT'S WHY THE ONE HUNDRED FOOT
WAS BEING MUCH AND NOT THE ONE
FIFTY WHILE YOU'RE STILL SHORT.
I DIDN'T KNOW IF THAT WAS
BECAUSE IF YOU WERE YOU'RE
PUTTING SUPPRESSION IN THE
LOWER LEVEL THAT'S ACTUALLY
RETAIL AND A THIRTEEN R
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO GO IN THERE
.
SO THAT'S PROBABLY ANOTHER
REASON YOU'D WANT TO LOOK AT A
PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM.
>> THERE'S REALLY AN EXISTING
SYSTEM IN THE FIRST FLOOR
THAT'S THE BIVOUAC CLOTHING.
>> OH SO YOU HAVE AN EXISTING
SYSTEM AND YOU'RE NOT CHANGING
THAT YOU'RE MAYBE TIED INTO IT.
IT WAS DESIGNED FOR THAT OR
THEY SEPARATE SYSTEM BECAUSE
SEPARATE SYSTEM, SEPARATE
SYSTEMS AND WE'RE GOING TO THE
THIRD SO SO DO YOU HAVE THAT
THEY HAVE THE TYPICAL BASEMENT
PARTIAL FLOOR BECAUSE THEY
DON'T HAVE ENOUGH ALREADY
EXISTING FOR THAT.
THAT WAS A LOT A LOT OF THE
DOWNTOWN HAD A LIMITED
SPRINKLER HEAD SYSTEM.
WHAT IT IS IT'S A LIMITED AREA
SYSTEM.
IT'S ACTUALLY A LIMITED AREA
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM.
SO YOU'RE ACTUALLY JUST
SPRINKLING THE THIRD FLOOR.
IT'S REALLY WITH THE NEW SYSTEM
.
>> YES.
SO THAT WOULD BE A 13 HOUR
SYSTEM RIGHT.
AND THAT BEING SAID SO I SEE I
SEE RIGHT NOW THERE'S TWO PATHS
PATHWAYS AND MAYBE A THIRD ONE
WOULD WOULD BE AGAIN I DON'T
WANT TO KEEP KICKING THE CAN
DOWN THE ROAD BECAUSE I KNOW
THAT OUR AND OUR OWNERSHIP IS
EXTREMELY KEEN TO GET OCCUPANTS
IN THERE SINCE WE WERE TRYING
TO GO FOR LIKE THE STUDENT
MOVEMENT THAT DIDN'T WORK.
WE'RE TRYING TO GET IT AS FAST
AS POSSIBLE WHETHER IT'S
ANOTHER APPEALS THROUGH THE PSA
FOR THEIR APPEAL VARIANCE FOR
THE RADIUS THROUGH BUILDING
STANDARDS.
SO WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE ALMOST
ALMOST MIRRORING EXACTLY WHAT
WE'RE DOING HERE ON THAT
SCHEDULE FOR AMENDING THIS
VARIANCE REQUEST.
BUT THAT WOULD TAKE A
SUBSEQUENT STREAM APPROVAL FOR
ANY CHANGES TO DROPPING DOWN TO
NINE FOURTEEN NFPA NINE
FOURTEEN OR WOULD THE AND AGAIN
APPROACH THIS ONE MORE TIME IF
IT WAS IF IT WERE JUST REMOVED
AND WE FOLLOW THE NINE FOURTEEN
SPEC SO THERE WASN'T ANY ISSUE
OF PROVIDENCE OF AN FCTC
REQUIRING A HIGHER RADIUS AT
ALL THAT WAY IT WOULD BE THE
EXACT SAME EXISTING CONDITION
AND USE AS IT WAS BEFORE AND WE
PROVIDED MORE THAN ENOUGH
SUPPLEMENTAL FIRE RATE
OF SEPARATIONS ANYWAY OVER AND
ABOVE IT WAS ALREADY THERE
AGAIN I DON'T WANT TO DO THAT
BUT IF IT MAKES IT SIMPLER AND
FASTER FOR US I WOULD I WOULD
BE OPEN TO THAT AMENDMENT
OF THE MOTION.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN OBVIOUSLY I'M GOING TO
GIVE A RECOMMENDATION
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER I CAN OR
NOT AT THIS APPEALS BECAUSE YOU
COULD SEND ME AN EMAIL THAT
WOULD PUT IT IN WRITTEN FORM
ANYWAYS.
SURE.
MY TWO OPTIONS WHAT I WOULD
LOOK AT FOR YOU IS POSSIBLY
GOING THROUGH THE PUBLIC
SERVICE ADMINISTRATOR IF THAT'S
THE RIGHT TITLE.
I'M SAYING IT RIGHT FOR THAT
VARIANCE AND THE VARIANCE
IS A
DECREASED AMOUNT AT THAT POINT.
SO IT IS KIND OF A A SMALLER
AMOUNT BUT THE OTHER OPTION
WOULD BE IF YOU HAD SOMEONE IN
MIND THIS IS FAMILIAR WITH
PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM THAT
THEY COULD UTILIZE A
PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM
ENGINEERING IT TO WHAT YOU HAVE
IN PLACE MAYBE MINUS THE FDC
BUT THEY'D HAVE TO DO IT IN
SUCH A WAY AND WE'RE IN SUCH A
WAY THAT MAYBE YOU WOULD STILL
GET APPROVAL AND UNFORTUNATELY
I THINK THAT WOULD FALL BACK IN
YOUR HANDS.
BUT A PERFORMANCE BASED SYSTEM
IS STILL ONCE AGAIN IT'S NOT A
PRESCRIPTION SYSTEM WHERE IT'S
FOLLOWING THE LETTER OF THE LAW
.
SO IF A PERFORMANCE BASED
ENGINEER SAYS I'VE DESIGNED
THIS SYSTEM, IT'S DESIGNED AS A
13 HOUR WHICH IS DESIGNED TO
ALLOW PEOPLE TO GET OUT, PUT
OUT THE FIRE AND IT'S GOING TO
BE ABLE TO DO THAT.
SO POTENTIAL AVENUE THAT YOU
REACH OUT TO.
YES, WHAT THEY HAVE TO SAY FOR
YOU IS CORRECT UNLESS THERE'S
THAT ROUTE OR THERE'S ADJUSTED
TO THE YEAH OR ADJUST THAT
WOULD BE THE TWO TWO ROUTES I
SEE MOVING FORWARD THE QUICKEST
ROUTE BECAUSE I DON'T EVEN KNOW
HOW THAT WORKS WITH THE TO GO
TO THE PUBLIC SERVICE
ADMINISTRATOR IS IT JUST A
PHONE CALL IN AN EMAIL SAYING
HEY THIS IS HERE THIS IS WHERE
WE'RE AT BECAUSE I DON'T EVEN
KNOW IF THIS IS ARE TRULY A
PROCESS FOR THAT THAT'S IN
WRITING?
WELL WELL THE I ASSUME WILL BE
A LETTER PURSUANT TO THE
JANUARY TWENTY FIFTH SITTING
DOWN THE PATIENT SECTION ONE
SEE VARIATIONS OF REVISION TO
STANDARDS.
WE SEEK RELIEF UNDER FOUR AND
ONE BASED ON THE USUAL
CONDITIONS OR THE CIRCUMSTANCES
MARKET.
SO THAT WOULD BE ONE THING NOW
YOU COULD TABLE TODAY'S
PROCEEDING TO A DATE AND THEN
YOU KNOW YOU BRING IT BACK WHEN
YOU IF YOU NEED TO BASED ON
WHAT THE PSA HE MIGHT SAY NO,
THAT'S BUILDING CODE THEN BACK
HERE OR HE MIGHT SAY YEAH YOU
CAN DO IT BUT YOU DON'T WANT TO
YOU DON'T WANT MR. ROBERTS TO
GRANT RELIEF AND THEN ALL OF A
SUDDEN BUILDING CODES WILL BACK
HERE AGAIN.
SO IF IT'S EVER GOING TO BE A
BUILDING CODE OR FIRE CODE THIS
IS THE BODY TO DO THAT SO WELL
AND THIS IS WOULD BE MY
INTERPRETATION OF IT FOR THOSE
THAT ARE PRESENT HERE FIRE
CODE , BUILDING CODE , NBC
STANDARDS IF YOU LOOK UP
DEFINITIONS, STANDARDS ARE
DIFFERENT THAN CODES.
THE ONLY THING ABOUT THE
STANDARDS THAT HAVE BEEN IN
PLACE THEY SAY THERE ARE
MINIMUM STANDARDS THAT MUST BE
FOLLOWED.
SO THAT'S WHY IT'S LOOKING AT
THAT SUNSET WHEN YOU SEE THEM
STANDARDS THEY HAVE BEEN
FOLLOWED TO A T RIGHT.
AND THEY'VE THEY HAVE EXISTED
AND VARIANCES AS WELL TO
STANDARDS.
SO I THINK MR. DREISER MAKES A
POINT IF YOU CAN TABLE THIS
JUST TO PUSH IT OUT EVEN THOUGH
IT MAY NOT BE NEEDED OR BE USED
OR CAN'T BE USED BUT AT LEAST
YOU HAVE IT IN PLACE AS A HOLD
AND THEN GO TO THE PSA OR
REVISE YOUR FORM REVISE IT
BECAUSE IF YOU GO IF YOU GO THE
ROUTE OF NPA AND OR NFPA 914
THAT COULD BE REVISED BUT THAT
STILL WOULD HAVE TO BE
SUBMITTED TO BUILDING TO REVIEW
.
RIGHT.
BUT AT LEAST IF YOU HOLD THIS
TODAY IF WE TABLE FORM IT MAY
STILL GO NOWHERE A MONTH FROM
NOW.
AGAIN THAT'S MY WORRY.
SO I'M WORRIED ABOUT THE TENNIS
MATCH OF PSA AND BOUNCING RIGHT
BACK HERE BUT THAT WAY YOU HAVE
IT LOCKED IN HERE RIGHT?
WE DON'T HAVE IT BUT SHE LIKES
YOU.
EXCUSE ME.
ISN'T THE DIFFERENCE THAT IF
THE PSA BOUNCES IT BACK TO US
WE HAVE A FULL RANGE OF OPTIONS
RELATIVE TO THE BUILDING
CODE MEANING THAT WE CAN
CONSIDER THE THIRD OPTION
OF THEY PROVIDED IN THE WELL
OBVIOUSLY I MEAN THE IF YOU
READ IT THE WAY IF YOU TAKE MY
WORDS THE WAY I SAID IT THE
APPEALS PROCESS FOR THE
MUNICIPAL CODE THE WAY IT'S
WRITTEN FOR US SAYS APPLIES TO
THIS CODE WHICH IS APPLYING TO
CODES AND NOT STANDARDS.
SO I WOULD ASSUME THAT POINT IF
THE PSA TURNS IT DOWN LIKE IF
THEY SAY YOU CAN DO IT OR CAN'T
DO IT, WHAT IF THE PSA BUMPS IT
BACK TO YOU GUYS?
I WOULD SAY YOU WOULD PROBABLY
BY MY OWN WORDS AND DEFINITION
AND INTERPRETATION YOU WOULD
HAVE THAT THIRD OPTION TO APPLY
IT BECAUSE THAT WHAT'S WRITTEN
IN THAT NINE ONE OR EIGHT
SECTION OF THE MUNICIPAL
CODE APPLIES TO CODE AND IT
SAYS THIS CODE THERE IT DOESN'T
SAY STANDARD.
SO AND IT'S VERY SPECIFIC
BECAUSE THAT'S THE THAT SAME
CHAPTER CHAPTER 111 IN THE
POLICE BOOK IS WHERE THIS GETS
LEGALLY ADOPTED INTO THE CITY
AND WHERE MY POWER COMES FROM.
SO YES, YOU'RE RIGHT.
TERRIFIC.
BUT NOT TO MUDDY THE WATERS
HERE JUST BECAUSE WITH EACH
ITERATION OF THIS A LITTLE BIT
MORE INFORMATION COMES OUT.
SO THERE'S AN EXISTING FIRE
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM FOR THE
RETAIL OR COMMERCIAL PART
OF THE BUILDING BE THE WORK ON
THE FIRST FLOOR.
YES, DOES THAT HAVE AN FTC?
>> NO, THERE'S NO CURRENT FTC
IN THE BUILDING.
OK, AND YOU PUT IN MORE THAN
ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY IT WOULD
STILL BE IN THE SAME LOCATION I
EVEN IF WE PUT IT RIGHT AT THE
EDGE OF THE BUILDING IT WOULD
STILL BE 13 FEET OUT OF THE
RADIUS REQUIREMENTS FOR 13 R SO
IF THEY'RE PUTTING IN A
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM JUST FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL LEVEL AND THAT'S
CONSIDERED A RESIDENTIAL
SUPPRESSION SYSTEM, DO THEY
NEED AN FTC FOR THAT FOR 13?
>> ARE THEY DO THEY DO YES.
AND THEN THEY ALSO NEED THAT
HYDRANT?
>> YEAH.
THE ONLY DIFFERENCE WITH THE 13
HOUR SYSTEM I GUESS THAT'S ONE
HUNDRED CHANGES.
>> ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY.
BUT I GUESS WHAT I'M SAYING IS
IT'S A DIFFERENT KIND
OF PRESIDENTIAL SYSTEM THAT
WOULD ALLOW YOU TO JUST TAP
INTO A DOMESTIC THE 13 D SYSTEM
WHICH IS ONE OR TWO FAMILY
DWELLINGS LAWS YOU JUST AT THE
BEST WATER THERE'S THREE
SYSTEMS THIRTEEN THIRTEEN R AND
THEN THIRTEEN THIRTEEN D CAN'T
BE APPLIED TO THIS.
IT'S GOT TO BE AT A MINIMUM
WE'RE AT AT A THIRTEEN OUR
RIGHT IS STILL JOB VIA EMAIL A
FEW WEEKS AGO TRYING TO SEE IF
IT WOULD BE CONSIDERED THAT BUT
NO I WENT THROUGH THIRTEEN R
WHICH NECESSITATED THE FTC BUT
THAT STILL BEGS THE POINT WITH
WITH GOOGLE SPRINKLER SYSTEM
AND THE EXISTING CONDITIONS
WITHOUT A CHANGE OF USE I MEAN
AT THIS POINT DO WE JUST
RECOMMEND AND GO ON THE STREAM
JUST REMOVING IT ALTOGETHER AND
BE LIKE WELL NO YOU KNOW DON'T
FORGET I USUALLY DON'T GET
INVOLVED IN DESIGN WORK.
I'M TRYING TO THINK OF THE
FRONT EDGE OF THE PROPERTY
BECAUSE YOU CAN I DON'T KNOW
HOW FAR IT EXTENDS OVER THAT
STARTS TO OPEN UP TO THE
PATHWAY INTO NICHOLS ARCADE
BECAUSE YOU CAN DO A
FREESTANDING F.D. BUT I DON'T
THINK THAT WOULD TECHNICALLY
WORK FOR THAT BUILDING.
I DON'T THINK YOU HAVE THE
OPTION TO MOVE IT 13 FEET
FARTHER DOWN BECAUSE IT
MISREPRESENTS WHAT IT'S
PROVIDING PROVIDING ACCESS TO
TO MAKE IT HELP YOU THAT MUCH.
>> YEAH, I DON'T THINK IT'S
GOING TO GIVE YOU THAT MUCH
MORE WIGGLE ROOM.
IT WOULD BE IN A WEIRD WAY LIKE
TRYING TO CONGREGATE.
WHAT'S INTERESTING IS A LOT
OF I THINK A LOT OF TIMES YOU
LOOK TO DOWNTOWN AREA, A LOT
OF PLACES THAT HAVE OFFICES
THEY HAVE THEM FREESTANDING DCS
WHERE THEY'RE COMING UP OUT
OF THE GROUND IN FRONT OF THE
BUSINESSES AND I ALWAYS THOUGHT
IT WAS DONE THAT WAY BECAUSE
THEY WERE HISTORIC BUILDINGS
AND THEY DIDN'T WANT TO PUT THE
FTC ON THE BUILDING ITSELF.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT'S REALLY
GOING TO HELP YOU MUCH FOR THE
SPACE.
SO YOU KNOW, MY RECOMMENDATION
WOULD BE TRYING TO GO THROUGH
THE FAA WRITE THE LETTER.
YOU HAVE ALL THE ALL THE
INFORMATION NOW YOU HAVE IT AND
IT'S THIRTEEN HOURS, NOT ONE
HUNDRED FOOT.
SO YOU CHANGE TO A 13 HOUR
SYSTEM A HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET
YOU'RE THAT FAR OFF REASONABLE
PROBABLY ACCOMMODATION AND EVEN
IF DENIED THERE YOU WOULD KNOW
YOUR NEXT PATH FORWARD WHICH
WOULD THROW IT BACK INTO A
BUILDING CODE SITUATION AND
THAT WOULD PUT US BACK HERE FOR
ANOTHER MEETING WHERE I HAVE
ALL OF THE OPTIONS THAT THEY
TYPICALLY WOULD TO HEAR ANY ANY
BUILDING CODE ISSUE COULD I ASK
TO FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS ON THAT
SPECIFIC LINE TRYING TO BE
CLEAR ON AGAIN IN AN EFFORT TO
SAVE TIME SINCE WE'VE WE ALL
HAVE THE INFORMATION THOROUGHLY
IN OUR OUR MEMORIES RIGHT NOW
WOULD IT WOULD BE WOULD IT BE
SOMETHING THE BOARD WOULD
ENTERTAIN TO DO A MOTION
PENDING ANY APPROVAL AND IF IT
DOES NOT GET APPROVED OF PSA
THEN IT WOULD COME BACK AND WE
CAN EXPLAIN WHY IT WASN'T.
BUT IF IT GETS APPROVED OF THE
PSA THEN IT DOESN'T NEED TO
BOUNCE BACK HERE ANYMORE AT
CORRECT.
RIGHT AND AGAIN AND IF IT IF IT
DOESN'T GET APPROVED THE PSA
THEN WE'D COME BACK WITH
WHATEVER VARIATIONS IN THE
REQUEST WOULD BE HERE AND HAVE
THE HEARING AGAIN.
I JUST WANT TO CUT DOWN BECAUSE
MAYBE IF THERE'S NO PROCESS
SIMILAR TO THIS WHERE THERE'S A
MONTHLY MEETING AND IT CAN BE
ON VIA EMAIL AND THAT CAN BE
DONE RATHER QUICKLY THEN THAT
WOULD TRIGGER THE APPROVAL
ASSUMING THERE'S APPROVAL ON IT
BECAUSE IT'S ALREADY MOVED AND
SO ORDERED HERE VERSUS COMING
RIGHT BACK.
AND IF IT DOESN'T VIA THE EMAIL
THEN WE'D STILL HAVE TO COME TO
THE NOVEMBER 20TH MEETING
ANYWAY AND HAVE A THANKSGIVING
DINNER TOGETHER AND SEE IF WE
GET APPROVAL THAT WAY IF THEY
TABLE IT HERE AND OR GOOD
THROUGH THE PUBLIC SERVICE
ADMINISTRATOR LIKE WE'LL JUST
CANCEL THE FOLLOWING MORNING
HERE.
SO I DON'T KNOW THAT THEY NEED
TO TO MAKE A STATEMENT FOR
APPROVAL BECAUSE YOU'D BE GOING
A DIFFERENT ROUTE IF YOU WERE
COMING BACK YET YOU'RE HOLED UP
IN A STANDARD SYSTEM ALL
TOGETHER OR GOING TO THE 914
OPTION THE 914 AND A SIMILAR
SYSTEM OR WHATEVER ROUTE YOU
WERE GOING TO DO.
THERE ARE FORMIDABLE.
YEAH, RIGHT.
SO THAT WOULD BE A SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT AVENUE RIGHT NOW.
SO STILL PENDING THE BSA
APPROVAL, WOULD THERE BE A
METHOD OF OF RECEIVING A
TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY FOR THE
SPACE UNTIL THAT TIME IS
RESOLVED?
THE REASON BEING WITH ITS
EXISTING CONDITION AND THE
EXISTING USE THEY COULD HAVE
BEEN OCCUPYING THE SPACE THE
WHOLE TIME THE CONSTRUCTORS ARE
OUT JUST IN AN EFFORT TO GET IN
BOTH BECAUSE THERE WOULDN'T BE
ANY INSIDE WORK BEING DONE.
IT WOULD BE PURELY EXTERIOR
TYING INTO THE EXTERIOR WATER
MAIN AND PROVIDING THE FTC
PENDING WITH THE PSA
REQUIRES
WITH OR WITHOUT A HYDRANT.
WHATEVER ISSUE WAS RESOLVED
THAT I MEAN THIS IS QUESTION I
WOULD NEED TO LOOK AT IT BUT
OUR STANDARD PROCEDURE IS
NOCEBO WITH ANY OUTSTANDING
LIFE SAFETY SYSTEMS OR ISSUES.
I THINK.
BUT YOU KNOW, I WOULD BE I
WOULD I WOULD LOOK AT IT WHAT
YOU HAVE WHAT THE AVENUE IS.
BUT YEAH, THAT'S OUR THAT'S OUR
TYPICAL SINCE WE'RE STILL WE
HAVE ALARMS AND EVERYTHING LIKE
THAT AGAIN I'M TRYING TO GET
OCCUPANCY IN THE SPACE WHILE WE
RECTIFY HOW WE'RE GETTING WATER
IN THE PIPES.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT AN IN DEPTH
BEFORE I COULD GIVE YOU THAT
CONCERN.
WELL QUESTION IF THEY DIDN'T
NEED IT IN THE FIRST PLACE,
MIKE, IF THEY'RE DOING THIS
JUST EXCUSE ME BECAUSE THEN
THEIR LIFE SAFETY IS WHAT FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS, ALARMS, ALARMS,
SMOKE DETECTORS, ALL THOSE
THINGS IF ALL THOSE THINGS ARE
IN PLACE WHICH ARE ALL OF THOSE
SYSTEMS, WOULDN'T THAT BE THEIR
THAT'S THEIR BASELINE AND RIGHT
NOW THEY'RE JUST TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO PUT
SPRINKLERS IN THERE SO WITHOUT
IT DETAILED IN FRONT OF ME, I'M
SITTING RIGHT HERE ABOUT SO
THAT'S AN EASY FOR YOU IF THE
DIRECTION THEY'RE GOING I WOULD
NEED THE INFORMATION DETAILED
TO MAKE AN INFORMED DECISION.
I MEAN IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE'S
TWO DIFFERENT AVENUES HERE.
IT'S SUBMITTING YOUR FIRE SMOKE
ALARM, YOUR FIRE EXTINGUISHER
COVER THAT INSPECTION AND
HAVING ALL THAT IN PLACE AND OR
TURN IT IN AND SEE IF THAT'S
THAT WOULD BE A MINIMAL
APPLICATION STREAM LIKE LIKE A
USUAL SEEABLE APPLICATION.
YOU'D SEE THERE'S AN
OUTSTANDING MESS OBVIOUSLY
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT THIS
MEETING IS ABOUT.
RIGHT.
BUT WE WOULD SAY BECAUSE THE
EXISTING YOUTH GROUPS AND THE
FACT THAT WE HAVE FIRE
EXTINGUISHERS, ALL OF THE
NOTIFICATION DEVICES THROUGHOUT
THE AREA AND ALARM SYSTEMS
CHECKED, WOULD THAT BE ALLOWED
TO SEE UVO WHILE WE AWAIT THE
PSA HEARING?
AND AGAIN, I'D NEED THE WHERE
ALL THE HERE WOULD BE.
I KNOW I CAN MAKE THAT.
I GET IT.
I GET IT NOW SPECIALIST
CONTAINMENT I'M HAPPY TO LOOK
THROUGH IT.
IT WOULD STILL BE THE OPEN
PERMIT.
YEAH YEAH.
BUT YOU WOULDN'T CLOSE OUT THE
PERMIT IT WOULD JUST BE AN
APPROVAL OF ZEVO AND KEEPING
THE GOVERNMENT OPEN FOR THE
MASSIVE PERMIT WHICH WOULD BE A
LITTLE SQUIRRELY.
IT MIGHT BE YOUR BEST ROUTE BUT
ESPECIALLY KICKING IT BACK.
I MEAN IF THE I THINK YOUR
FIRST ROUTE IS THE PSA.
THAT'S WHAT I'M SAYING WITHOUT
A DOUBT.
I THINK WHEN YOU SAY YOU START
DRAFTING A LETTER TO THEM, YOU
START DRAFTING A LETTER AND
JUST SEND IT OFF TO THEM.
I'M NOT EVEN SURE IF THERE IS A
PROCESS FOR IT.
I THINK A LETTER WITH WHAT YOU
WANT TO ACCOMPLISH, WHAT YOU
WANT TO DO UNDER THE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE SPECIFICATION
STANDARDS THAT YOU WANT THEM TO
RULE ON IT.
SAY THIS IS WHERE WE'RE AT,
THIS IS WHERE WE'RE AT.
THIS IS THE VARIANCE WE NEED
FOR THIS AMOUNT.
I MEAN I CAN'T IMAGINE AT IT I
DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
HELD IN THIS COUNCIL CHAMBERS
FOR THAT.
I THINK IT GOES STRICTLY TO ONE
PERSON ONE PERSON ALONE.
THEY MAY REACH OUT TO ME BUT
THEY'RE GOING GIVE YOU I THINK
AN ANSWER BACK.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S A HUGE
LONG PROCESS BUT THEN I DON'T
KNOW BECAUSE IT HASN'T BEEN
DONE THAT I KNOW OF .
BUT I THINK THAT IS YOUR MOST
IMMEDIATE WALK OUT OF THIS ROOM
TODAY TYPE THING TO DO.
YOU CAN KEEP THIS TABLE HERE IF
YOU HAD TO COME BACK BUT THAT'S
ONLY JUST FOR THAT PURPOSE.
IF YOU HAD TO COME BACK FOR
SOME ODD REASON I MEAN YOU
MIGHT YOU MIGHT SEND AN EMAIL
OUT IN TWO DAYS LATER.
YOU'RE PROVED RIGHT AND THEN
YOU'RE DONE SAFE AND THEN WRITE
IN TO THE LETTER LIKE PLEASE
RESCIND THE TABLED MOTION EX
WELL AGAIN YEAH WE CAN MOTION
WE WOULD MAKE HERE IS JUST A
TABLE.
JUST A TABLE.
YEAH WE WANT IT WE WANT TO BE
MAKING A MOTION TO BE LAST
FOREVER ON THE TABLE AND YOU
HAVE TO PUT UP SOMEDAY A BIG
TABLE.
YEAH I READ THEM CONCURRENTLY
WITH THAT REACHING OUT RIGHT
WHEN I WALK OUT THE DOOR I'LL
GET ON THE ON THE HORN AND THEN
ALSO SUBMIT A CFO REQUEST FOR
THE EXISTING CONDITIONS SHOWING
ALL OF THE WE ALREADY HAVE THE
APPROVAL ON THE INSPECTIONS
ANYWAY SO WE'LL JUST PUT IN THE
SEAL A REQUEST WITH THAT
PENDING NOMENCLATURE
OF EVERYTHING THAT WE DISCUSSED
HERE AND IF IT'S AMENABLE TO
YOU THAT WOULD BE A NICE TO
HAVE AT LEAST THE OCCUPANCY
WHILE WE RESOLVE IT THROUGH THE
PSA, WHO KNOWS?
THAT COULD BE A WEEK.
IT COULD BE TWO.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE RESPONSE
TIME IS BUT AT VERY LEAST WE
WOULD FRONT LOAD SOME OF THAT
KNOWING THAT WE ARE MEETING THE
CURRENT SAFETY STANDARDS WHILE
WE FIGURE OUT WHAT WE'RE DOING
WITH THE SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
OK, THEN THE MOTION TO TABLE IS
MOTION A MOTION TO TABLE FOR
FOR SIXTY DAYS.
SECOND, IT WASN'T THERE I HATE
THE CABLE TV AND GOOD LUCK WITH
YOUR NEXT MEETING WITH THANK
YOU.
>> YES.
AND EMAILS AND OR CALLS THE YOU
CAN FIND THAT WHOLE STANDARD ON
THE CITY WEBSITE UNDER THE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
YES.
SO I'M SURE YOU ALREADY HAVE IT
FIALKA YEAH I APPRECIATE THAT
WE HAVE NO BUSINESS WITH ANY
OF THAT WHERE WE'RE GOING TO
GIVE YOU GO AWAY I THINK IN THE
FINAL PART I GOT ANOTHER MEDIA
THANK FOR BEING HERE.
I GOT ANOTHER HE'S JUST A
MOTION TO ADJOURN THE SECOND
I'M SORRY YOU SAID THAT OVER
DIVISION I WE HAVE AND SKIP
OVER SOMETHING I THINK WE'RE
GOOD.
SO MOTION TO ADJOURN MOTION TO
ADJOURN AGAIN.
NO SECOND THE FAVOR I
FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION WINTER MR.